Add eBPF pros/cons blog post (#129)
pyroscope-io/docs: blog/positives-negatives-profiling-ebpf.mdx

---
title: The positives and negatives of profiling with eBPF
sidebar_label: Profiling with eBPF
slug: /positives-negatives-profiling-ebpf
date: "2022-09-05"

authors:
  - name: Ryan Perry
    url: https://github.com/Rperry2174
    image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23323466?v=4
---

## What is eBPF?

At its root, eBPF takes advantage of the kernel’s privileged ability to oversee and control the entire system.
With eBPF you can run sandboxed programs in a privileged context such as the operating system kernel.
To better understand the implications and learn more check out this [blog post](https://ebpf.io/what-is-ebpf)
which goes into much more detail.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23323466/188525916-0e33c64a-9a7a-4fe2-84d6-91111c4d6f39.png)

As you can see in the diagram, some of the most popular use cases for eBPF are related to Networking, Security,

> and most relevenat to this blog post -- observability (logs, metrics, traces, and profiles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and most relevant to this blog post -- observability (logs, metrics, traces, and profiles).
```

> and most relevenat to this blog post -- observability (logs, metrics, traces, and profiles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and most relevant to this blog post -- observability (logs, metrics, traces, and profiles).
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23323466/188765863-264f9ff3-9d26-4019-8cb3-a26f8535cc7b.png)

It's also worth noting that the growth of profiling is not limited to eBPF, the prevalence of profiling tools has grown
to the point where it is now possible to find a tool for almost any language or runtime. As a result, profiling
is more frequently being considered a first-class citizen in observability suites. For example, OpenTelemetry has kicked off
efforts to [standardize profiling](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/blob/main/text/profiles/0212-profiling-vision.md)
in order to enable more effective observability. For more information on those efforts check out the `#otel-profiling` channel on the CNCF slack!

## Current state of eBPF profiling

There's a wide spectrum of "challenges" with eBPF profiling that can drastically change the value you're able to receive from utilizing it.
This is a list roughly sorted from "easier" fairly standard functionality to "harder" more advanced functionality:

> - Collecting data with Low-overhead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Collecting data with low overhead
```

- Auto-tagging profiles with available metadata
- Finding the best _format_ in which to send profiling data

> - Dealing with collecting, storing, and applying Symbols

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dealing with collecting, storing, and applying symbols
```

- Finding ways to deal with _lack_ of symbols
- Finding efficient ways to do other kinds of profiling such as memory profiling
- Finding ways to apply tags dynamically and/or arbitrarily

This blog will focus on Pyroscope's unique approach to solving these issues.

## Pros and cons of eBPF profiling vs non-eBPF profiling

> When it comes to modern eBPF profiling, it effectively happens at two different levels of the operating system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it comes to modern profiling, there are two ways of getting profiling data:
```
